# Introduction

Many string problems can be easily solved in O(n^2) time, but the challenge is to find algorithms that work in O(n) or O(nlogn) time.

The set of characters that may appear in strings is called an alphabet.

- For example, the alphabet {A,B,...,Z} consists of the capital letters of English.

A substring is a sequence of consecutive characters in a string.

- We use the notation s[a...b] to refer to a substring of s that begins at position a and ends at position b.
- A string of length n has n(n + 1)/2 substrings.

A subsequence is a sequence of (not necessarily consecutive) characters in a string in their original order.

- A string of length n has 2^n − 1 subsequences.

A prefix is a substring that starts at the beginning of a string, and a suffix is a substring that ends at the end of a string.

A rotation can be generated by moving the characters of a string one by one from the beginning to the end (or vice versa).

A period is a prefix of a string such that the string can be constructed by repeating the period.

- The last repetition may be partial and contain only a prefix of the period.

A border is a string that is both a prefix and a suffix of a string.

Strings are compared using the lexicographical order (which corresponds to the alphabetical order).

- It means that x < y if either x != y and x is a prefix of y, or there is a position k such that x[i] = y[i] when i < k and x[k] < y[k].

# Trie

A trie is a rooted tree that maintains a set of strings.

Each string in the set is stored as a chain of characters that starts at the root.

If two strings have a common prefix, they also have a common chain in the tree.

We can check in O(n) time whether a trie contains a string of length n, because we can follow the chain that starts at the root node.

We can add a string of length n to the trie in O(n) time by first following the chain and then adding new nodes to the trie if necessary.

Using a trie, we can find the longest prefix of a given string such that the prefix belongs to the set.

# String Hashing

String hashing is a technique that allows us to efficiently check whether two strings are equal.

The idea in string hashing is to compare hash values of strings instead of their individual characters.

If two strings are the same, their hash values are also the same, which makes it possible to compare strings based on their hash values.

# String Searching Algorithms

In computer science, string-searching algorithms, sometimes called string-matching algorithms, are an important class of string algorithms that try to find a place where one or several strings (also called patterns) are found within a larger string or text.

The method of feasible string-search algorithm may be affected by the string encoding.

The most basic case of string searching involves one (often very long) string, sometimes called the haystack, and one (often very short) string, sometimes called the needle.

- The goal is to find one or more occurrences of the needle within the haystack.

Another more complex type of search is regular expression searching, where the user constructs a pattern of characters or other symbols, and any match to the pattern should fulfill the search.

Given two strings, maximal exact matchings (MEMs) are common substrings that cannot be extended left or right without causing a mismatch.

There are different types of method is used to finding the string:

- The Naive String Matching Algorithm
- The Rabin-Karp-Algorithm
- Finite Automata
- The Knuth-Morris-Pratt Algorithm
- The Boyer-Moore Algorithm

## KMP algorithm

## Summary

| Algorithm          | Preprocessing Time | Matching Time           |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| Naive              | O                  | O (n - m + 1)m          |
| Rabin-Karp         | O(m)               | O (n - m + 1)m          |
| Finite Automata    | O(m\|∑\|)          | O (n)                   |
| Knuth-Morris-Pratt | O(m)               | O (n)                   |
| Boyer-Moore        | O(\|∑\|)           | O ((n - m + 1) + \|∑\|) |
